# Definition

Big [[Data]] describes **large and diverse datasets that are huge in volume and also rapidly grow in size over time**. Big data is used in [[Machine Learning]], predictive modeling, and other advanced analytics to solve business problems and make informed decisions.
– *Wikipedia*

---

Big Data is data whose scale, distribution, diversity, and/or timeliness require the use of new technical architectures and analytics to enable insights that unlock new sources of business value. 
– M. James, C. Michael, B. Brad, B. Jacques, D. Richard, R. Charles, and H. Angela, 2011. *Big data: the next frontier for innovation, competition, and productivity. The McKinsey Global Institute.*

---

- Exceeds the processing capacity of conventional database systems.
	Too big (TB/PB level)
	Moves too fast
	New structure

- How much data an average person generates per day?
	Mobile phone geo-location data. 
	Social media data.
	Communications. 
	IoT devices.  
	*etc.*

- With proper data processing techniques, new knowledge or information can be extracted form the data generated by people in their daily life.

# Key Characteristics

- Data Volume 44x increase from 2010 to 2020 from 1.2 ZB (Zettabyte - 1 trillion Gigabytes) to 35.2 ZB
- Processing Complexity with changing data structures and use cases warranting additional transformations and analytical techniques. 
- Greater variety of data structures to mine and analyze.

# Four Vs of Big Data

Volume (Scale of the Data, how big it is)
Velocity (Timeliness, how fast it's distributed)
Variety (Both the Diversity and Distribution of this Data)
Veracity (Fancy word for *Accuracy* of the Data)
*Hidden 5th V - **Value***

---

The five Vs of Big Data will not work well with the traditional Enterprise Data Warehouse. 
- Centralized, purpose-built space $\rightarrow$ lack of agility
- Supports Business Intelligence and reporting  $\rightarrow$ restrict robust analyses
- Analysts must depend on IT group and DBAs for data access  $\rightarrow$ lack of control
- Analyst must spend significant time to aggregate and disaggregate data from multiple sources $\rightarrow$ reduces timeliness

*To succeed, Big Data analytics require different approaches*  $\rightarrow$ [[Analytic Sandbox]] 
